---
title: Deploying Logstash
tags: Linux
---

[Logstash](ihttp://logstash.net/) is a program designed to collect, parse, and
store logs from Linux machines so that you can go through them and try to make
sense of them at a later date. I was tasked with deploying logstash on the
various computers that comprise the 
[Computer Science House's](http://csh.rit.edu/) systems. This will detail the
steps I went through to do that.

There's multiple parts to logstash, the shipper, indexer, and web interface.
They all work together to collect, parse, and show you logs, and logs travel
through them in the above order.

The shipper is an instance of logstash that sits on a machine, and watches for 
new logs to be made. Upon finding these new logs, it grabs them and sends a copy
over to a [Redis](http://redis.io/) instance somewhere. For the purpose of 
logstash, Redis is just a fancy queue. There will be a shipper running on every
computer you want to be viewing logs from, all talking to the same Redis
instace.

Next the indexer (another instance of the same binary) takes these logs out of
Redis at the other end of the queue, and saves them in to
[Elasticsearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/).

Finally yet another instance of logstash sits on a machine, and serves up a web
page containing [Kibana](http://www.elasticsearch.org/overview/kibana/) to view
and process these logs.

The first problem arises in that you get a .jar file from logstash's website,
and are instructed to run it with different flags to get the different modes
working. This is all fine and good to test out logstash, but we need something
more akin to a service for this. Some quick googling had revealed these
[init scripts](https://gist.github.com/jippi/1065761) set up to make the running
of logstash more automated

Side Note: This was a couple months ago, and I'm not 100% positive those are 
the init scripts I used. Also I'm pretty sure those init scripts required some 
hacking on to get working, but I'll leave that as an exercise for the reader.

Anywho, the configs were stored in /etc/logstash/logstash-{shipper|indexer},
the pid files stored in /var/run/logstash/logstash-{shipper|indexer|web}.pid,
the logs were stored in /var/log/logstash/logstash-{shipper|indexer|web}.log,
and the init scripts stored in
/etc/init.d/logstash/logstash-{shipper|indexer|web}.

Another problem presented itself when I learned that Kibana uses the
Elasticsearch http apis to present the information to the user, and these are
not in any way secure. I'll edit this once I figure out what I'm going to do
about that.

Here's the configs I used for logstash when deploying it on my personal machine:

/etc/logstash/logstash-shipper

    :::python
    input {
        stdin {
            type => "stdin-type"
        }
        file {
            type => "syslog"

            path => [ "/var/log/*.log", "/var/log/syslog", "/var/lib/plexmediaserver/Library/Application Support/Plex Media Server/Logs" ]
        }
        file {
            type => "messages"

            path => [ "/var/log/messages"]
        }
    }

    output {
        stdout { codec => rubydebug }
        redis { host => "127.0.0.1" data_type => "list" key => "logstash" password => tits123}
    }

/etc/logstash/logstash-indexer

    :::python
    input {
      redis {
        host => "127.0.0.1"
        # these settings should match the output of the agent
        data_type => "list"
        key => "logstash"

        # We use the 'json' codec here because we expect to read
        # json events from redis.
        codec => json
        password => tits123
      }
    }

    output {
      stdout { debug => true }

      elasticsearch {
        host => "127.0.0.1"
      }
    }

Also here's a tiny script I wrote to deploy logstash onto a machine. It's not
the best, but might help provide insight to the steps necessary:

    :::bash
    mkdir -p /usr/local/bin/logstash /var/log/logstash /var/run/logstash /etc/logstash /etc/sysconfig
    touch /var/log/logstash-shipper
    wget https://download.elasticsearch.org/logstash/logstash/logstash-1.3.3-flatjar.jar -O /usr/local/bin/logstash/logstash.jar
    scp -p derek@haruko.csh.rit.edu:/etc/init.d/logstash-shipper /etc/init.d/logstash-shipper
    scp -p derek@haruko.csh.rit.edu:/etc/logstash/logstash-shipper.conf /etc/logstash/logstash-shipper.conf 
    scp derek@haruko.csh.rit.edu:logstash-shipper /etc/sysconfig/logstash-shipper
    chmod 640 /etc/sysconfig/logstash-shipper
