---
title: ODD
tags: Projects
---

So I've been working on this one project on and off for about a year now.
[Project ODD](https://github.com/dgonyeo/odd) is a general purpose one 
dimensional display powered by a Raspberry Pi. It exists to provide dynamic
lighting (ex: "I wish the lighting in here was a little cooler and brighter")
and entertainment.

The pi runs some code I wrote in C that displays different "animations" on the 
LEDs. The most basic of which is to set them to a solid color. It goes up from 
there, and there are animations that light up the LEDs in a configurable chunk 
to a configurable color, and moves it back and forth (think of a cylon's eye), 
it can strobe, and I'm currently working on animations that visualize audio 
that comes in on a microphone port on this USB dongle I have. 

Animations can also affect each other, via modifiers that are also specified in
code. Animations can add to or subtract from each other, among other things,
much like different layers in Photoshop can influence each other. A rainbow
effect can be achieved by making three cylon eye animations, each a little more
than a third of the boards in width. Set one to be red, one green, and one blue,
and set their speeds to all be slightly differently, and a rather entertaining
rainbow will be moving across the LEDs.

This is also all controllable from a website (well, it will be again once I fix
it). You can point your generic device at a web server hosted on the pi, and a
website will exist to control the behaviour of the LEDs in real time. This makes
the project very useful for dynamic lighting in a room; one time last year I
wanted to get something from my room while my roommate was in there asleep. On
my phone, I set the LEDs to be 2% brightness and red, and was able to go in
there and see, without impacting my roommate's sleep in any way.

The hardware is comprised of a Raspberry Pi and a chain of these circuit boards 
I've been making. Each board contains a 
[TLC5947](http://www.ti.com/lit/ds/symlink/tlc5947.pdf) from TI, 8 RGB LEDs, 
and some additional circuitry. These boards daisy chain together, and are 
controlled from the Raspberry Pi via it's GPIO pins.

As the project is on going, there's a lot more I have planned I want to do. Just
need to find the time.
